Add mini draftail RFC (#60)
wagtail/rfcs: text/000-mini-draftail.md

# RFC : Draftail Usage for General Text Entry

* RFC: 
* Author: Jacob Topp-Mugglestone
* Created: 2020-09-17
* Last Modified: 2020-09-17

## Abstract

This RFC proposes using cut back versions of Draftail for general text entry, including as the default widget for `TextField` and `CharField`. 

## Motivation

Currently, we have two main types of text entry: plain text, and rich text. Rich text entry uses the Draftail editor, which provides formatting functionality.

> However, Draftail also enables/massively simplifies admin utility features like [inline comments](https://github.com/jacobtoppm/rfcs/blob/commenting/text/050-commenting.md), and [tone guidance](https://youtu.be/IMNFjrQ5OY4?t=1881), as well as other types of content analysis. These are features which are not intrinsically linked to a field using rich text formatting, and having them only on certain field types can create inconsistencies for users. Taking tone guidance as an example, users would be picked up for not following the style guide in a rich text ‘introduction’ field, but not in the page’s title. Taking commenting, “highlight text to add a comment” on all text fields is a much more consistent and user-comprehensible approach than having some text fields allowing inline comments, and some not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, rich text editors also enable/massively simplify admin utility features like [inline comments](https://github.com/jacobtoppm/rfcs/blob/commenting/text/050-commenting.md), and [tone guidance](https://youtu.be/IMNFjrQ5OY4?t=1881), as well as other types of content analysis. These are features which are not intrinsically linked to a field using rich text formatting, and having them only on certain field types can create inconsistencies for users. Taking tone guidance as an example, users would be picked up for not following the style guide in a rich text ‘introduction’ field, but not in the page’s title. Taking commenting, “highlight text to add a comment” on all text fields is a much more consistent and user-comprehensible approach than having some text fields allowing inline comments, and some not.
```

Draftail provides a useful framework for attaching entities to text - such as comments, or spellcheck suggestions - and ensuring their positions are kept consistent as text is edited, as well as storing any state (deciding to hide a tone or spellcheck suggestion, for instance). It’s also easy to extract plain text content.

> As a result, we propose making a cut down version of the Draftail editor (with no rich text features enabled) the default widget used for text entry in Wagtail, used to provide inline commenting on all text fields, as well as any text analysis features chosen. This would involve no changes to the database representation of these fields, so would be a smooth transition for users.

Reviewer: Suggested change to resolve my comment

```suggestion
As a result, we propose making a cut down version of the Draftail editor (with no rich text features enabled) the default widget used for text entry in Wagtail, used to provide inline commenting on all text fields, as well as any text analysis features chosen. This would involve no changes to the database representation of these fields, so would be a smooth transition for users.

There may be adjustments needed to the fields validation, in particular [maximum length](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/pull/8930).
```
